blog: Building admin dashboard with Dashboard 2.0 (#1883)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/04/building-an-admin-panel-in-node-red-with-dashboard-2.md

!["Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to show admin page"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-change-node-for-showing-page.png "Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to show admin page"){data-zoomable}

!["Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to hide admin page"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-change-node-for-hidding-page.png "Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to display admin page"){data-zoomable}

5. Connect the first change node's input to the switch node's first output and the second change node's input to the switch node's second output.
6. Drag a ui-control widget onto the canvas, then click on it and select ui-base which includes all your pages including the admin page. 
7. Finally, connect both change node’s outputs to the ui-control’s input.

## Hidding Admin only page by default 

> finally, we need to hide an admin-only page by default to ensure regular users don't accidentally land on the admin-only page.

Reviewer: Finally was used in step 7 above too. That doesn't quite flow:

```suggestion
To hide an admin-only page by default to ensure regular users don't accidentally land on the admin-only page the following steps are needed.
```

1. Go to the Dashboard 2.0 sidebar, and select the layout tab.
2. Locate the admin-only page and click on the edit icon next to it.
3. Set visibility as "hidden".

!["Screenshot displaying admin-only page configuration"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-admin-only-page-configuration.png "Screenshot displaying admin-only page configuration"){data-zoomable}

## Deploying the flow

!["Screenshot displaying the FlowFuse Editor with flow of admin-only page"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-flowfuse-editior.png "Screenshot displaying the FlowFuse Editor with flow of admin-only page"){data-zoomable}

1. With your flow updated to include the above, click the "Deploy" button in the top-right of the Node-RED Editor.

> 2. Navigate to `https://<your-instance-name>.flowfuse.cloud/dashboard`.

Reviewer: Opening the dashboard through the sidebar might be a better option than this line for the next post @sumitshinde-84

> 3. When you visit the page for the first time, you'll need to log in with your FlowFuse username and password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. When you visit the page for the first time, you'll need to log in with your FlowFuse username and password or through Single-Sign on.
```

## Next step

If you want to learn more about FlowFuse multiuser addon and personalize the multiuser dashboard. we do have many other resources, please refer to them to learn more.

- [Webinar](https://flowfuse.com/webinars/2024/node-red-dashboard-multi-user/) - This webinar provides an in-depth discussion of the Personalised Multi-User Dashboards feature and offers guidance on how to get started with it.
- [Personalised Multi-user Dashboards with Node-RED Dashboard 2.0](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/01/dashboard-2-multi-user/) - This article explores the process of building multi-user Dashboards secured with FlowFuse Cloud.
- [Displaying logged-in users on Dashboard 2.0](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/04/displaying-logged-in-users-on-dashboard/) - This detailed guide demonstrates how to display logged-in users on Dashboard 2.0 which using the FlowFuse Multiuser addon and FlowFuse.

- [Multi-User Dashboard for Ticket/Task Management](https://flowfuse.com/blueprints/flowfuse-dashboard/multi-user-dashboard/#multi-user-dashboard-for-ticket%2Ftask-management) blueprint, which allows you to utilize templates to develop Personalize multi-user dashboard quickly.

> ## Conclusion
> In conclusion, by following the steps in this guide, you can easily make an Admin-only page in Node-RED Dashboard 2.0. Using the FlowFuse Multiuser addon and FlowFuse's features, you'll make sure only allowed users can see important information. This way, you increase security and control over your dashboard, giving you better management over who can see what data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: How to Build an Admin Dashboard with Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
subtitle: A guide to building an Admin Panel in Node-RED with Dashboard 2.0
description: Discover step-by-step instructions for developing an admin-only page in Node-RED Dashboard 2.0 using the FlowFuse Multiuser addon. Additionally, learn how to secure Dashboard 2.0 and explore the features of the FlowFuse multiuser addon.
date: 2024-04-05
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]

> image: 

Reviewer: @sumitshinde-84 Can you create an art request issue? 

https://flowfuse.com/handbook/design/art-requests/

---
title: How to Build an Admin Dashboard with Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
subtitle: A guide to building an Admin Panel in Node-RED with Dashboard 2.0
description: Discover step-by-step instructions for developing an admin-only page in Node-RED Dashboard 2.0 using the FlowFuse Multiuser addon. Additionally, learn how to secure Dashboard 2.0 and explore the features of the FlowFuse multiuser addon.
date: 2024-04-05
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: 
tags:
   - posts
   - dashboard 2.0

---

> As businesses grow, data doubles, and managing and analyzing such increasing amounts of data becomes crucial. businesses are using Node-RED and its Dashboard 2.0 to handle this effectively. But what about controlling who can access what data? That's where an admin-only page comes in. Now With Node-RED Dashboard 2.0, we can also create robust and secure admin-only pages easily. In this guide, we'll provide you with step-by-step instructions to Build an Admin-only page with Node-RED Dashboard 2.0.

Reviewer: @sumitshinde-84 statements like "data doubles" don't add anything here for me and are too conversational. Please refrain from such text going forward until we want to change the tone on our blog posts.

```suggestion
Managing and analyzing increasing amounts of data becomes crucial for organisations. Dashboard 2.0 and Node-RED help organisations to access the data, normalize it, and visualize it. But what about controlling who can access what data? That's where an admin-only page comes in. Now With Node-RED Dashboard 2.0, we can also create robust and secure admin-only pages easily. In this guide, we'll provide you with step-by-step instructions to Build an Admin-only page with Node-RED Dashboard 2.0.
```

<!--more-->

If you're new to Dashboard 2.0, refer to our blog post [Getting Started with Dashboard 2.0](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/03/dashboard-getting-started/), and Dashboard 2.0 to get things started.

> ## Enabling FlowFuse User Authentication

Reviewer: @joepavitt @sumitshinde-84 I think we should start to capture this in the main FF docs. What do you think?

Author: It would be perfect, but I am looking for documents. I am not able to find step-by-step instructions for it. Could you please direct me to where I can find them? I guess it should be here: https://flowfuse.com/docs/user/instance-settings/#security.

Reviewer: Docs is even better indeed, feel free to update that doc.

1. Navigate to the instance setting.
2. Select the “Security” tab.
3. Enable “FlowFuse User Authentication”

!["Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the FlowFuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security.
"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-flowfuse-instance-setting.png "Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the FlowFuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security.
"){data-zoomable}

## Installing FlowFuse Multiuser Addon 

The FlowFuse Multiuser Addon is a plugin developed for Dashboard 2.0 to access logged-in user data on the dashboard. For more information on FlowFuse Multiuser Addon refer to [Exploring the FlowFuse User Addon ](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/04/displaying-logged-in-users-on-dashboard/#Enabling-FlowFuse-User-Authentication)

1. Click the Node-RED Settings (top-right)
2. Click "Manage Palette"
3. Switch to the "Install" tab
4. Search for `@flowfuse/node-red-dashboard-2-user-addon`

> ##  Building Admin-only page

Reviewer: Maybe link to your previous post to as a primer for this one?

### Outlining approach 

Before we start building the Admin-only page, let's outline our approach :

- Once the FlowFuse Multiuser addon is configured, each Dashboard 2.0 node emits a `msg` which will have user information attached as `msg._client.user`.
- We'll store the list of admin user’s usernames in the Node-RED global context.
- Using an event node, we'll track visitors to the admin-only page.
- If the visitor's username is contained in the list of admin usernames, they'll see the page; otherwise, the page will be hidden.

### Practical implementation

> Now, let's proceed with the practical steps to implement the admin-only page:
> 
> 
> - Create an admin page in Dashboard 2.0 to hide sensitive data from regular users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's proceed with the practical steps to implement the admin-only page:
1. Create an admin page in Dashboard 2.0 to hide sensitive data from regular users.
```

> - Drag an event node on the canvas, then click on it, and choose the UI base of which your admin page and other pages are part.
> - Drag a switch node on the canvas, and add two one to check whether the user’s username is contained in the admin list or a second for otherwise, see the below image.

Reviewer: As these are steps that need to be processed in order, a numbered list is better than a bullet point list.

```suggestion
2. Drag an event node on the canvas, then click on it, and choose the UI base of which your admin page and other pages are part.
3. Drag a switch node on the canvas, and add two one to check whether the user’s username is contained in the admin list or a second for otherwise, see the below image.
```

Author: I apologize for the mistake on my part, but thank you for bringing it to my attention.

!["Screenshot displaying the switch node which checks whether the logged-in user's username is contained in the admin list or not"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-switch-node-checking-page-viewer-isadmin.png "Screenshot displaying the switch node which checks whether the logged-in user's username is contained in the admin list or not"){data-zoomable}

> - Drag two change nodes onto the canvas. Configure the first one to show the admin page using the payload: `{"pages":{"show":["Admin View"]}}`, and the second one to hide it using the payload: `{"pages":{"hide":["Admin View"]}}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Drag two change nodes onto the canvas. Configure the first one to show the admin page using the payload: `{"pages":{"show":["Admin View"]}}`, and the second one to hide it using the payload: `{"pages":{"hide":["Admin View"]}}`.
```

!["Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to show admin page"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-change-node-for-showing-page.png "Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to show admin page"){data-zoomable}

!["Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to hide admin page"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-change-node-for-hidding-page.png "Screenshot displaying the change node which contains payload to display admin page"){data-zoomable}

> 
> - Connect the first change node to the switch node's first output, and the second change node to the second output.
> - Drag a UI control node onto the canvas, then click on it to select the same UI base that you selected for the event node. 
> - Finally, connect both change node’s output to the ui control’s input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Connect the first change node to the switch node's first output, and the second change node to the second output.
6. Drag a UI control node onto the canvas, then click on it to select the same UI base that you selected for the event node. 
7. Finally, connect both change node’s output to the ui control’s input.
```

## Storing a list of Admin users

Now we will have to store a list of admin users somewhere, For this guide we will store that admin list in the Node-RED global context.

- Drag an inject node onto the canvas.
- Drag the 'change' node onto the canvas and set msg.payload to a JSON array containing the usernames of admin users. This will store the created admin list in our Node-RED global context. Click the inject node’s button once you've deployed the flow.

!["Screenshot displaying the change node which which stores list of admins username in global context"](./images/building-admin-panel-node-red-dashboard-2-change-node-for-storing-adminlist-to-global-contenxt.png "Screenshot displaying the change node which which stores list of admins username in global context"){data-zoomable}

> - Connect the inject node’s output to the change node’s input.

Reviewer: Again, numbered lists would be better. :)

## Next step

If you want to learn more about FlowFuse multiuser addon and personalize multiuser dashboard. we do have many other resources, please refer to them to learn more.

- [Webinar](https://flowfuse.com/webinars/2024/node-red-dashboard-multi-user/) - This webinar provides an in-depth discussion of the Personalised Multi-User Dashboards feature and offers guidance on how to get started with it.
- [Personalised Multi-user Dashboards with Node-RED Dashboard 2.0](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/01/dashboard-2-multi-user/) - This article explores the process of building multi-user Dashboards secured with FlowFuse Cloud.
- [Displaying logged-in users on Dashboard 2.0](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/04/displaying-logged-in-users-on-dashboard/) - This detailed guide demonstrates how to display logged-in users on Dashboard 2.0 which using the FlowFuse Multiuser addon and FlowFuse.

- [Multi-User Dashboard for Ticket/Task Management](https://flowfuse.com/blueprints/flowfuse-dashboard/multi-user-dashboard/#multi-user-dashboard-for-ticket%2Ftask-management) blueprint, which allows you to quickly utilize templates to develope Personalize multi-user dashboard.

> ## Conclusion
> In conclusion, by following the steps in this guide, you can easily make an Admin-only page in Node-RED Dashboard 2.0. Using the FlowFuse Multiuser addon and FlowFuse's features, you'll make sure only allowed users can see important information. This way, you increase security and control over your dashboard, giving you better management over who can see what data.
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: I liked the next steps section, no need for a conclusion IMO.

```suggestion
```

Author: I believe adding a conclusion would be beneficial. Sometimes, Google may ignore the meta description and instead choose a snippet from the blog that is more relevant. In my observation, Google often considers an intro or conclusion if the meta-description is not more relevant or of higher quality. Therefore, providing Google with options that we prefer to use in place of the meta description would be better
